[DOCS] Add API example for setting SQL permissions (#92491)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/sql/security.asciidoc

[discrete]
[[sql-security-permissions]]
==== Permissions (server-side)
On the server, one needs to add a few permissions to
users so they can run SQL. To run SQL, a user needs `read` and
`indices:admin/get` permissions at minimum while some parts of 
the API require `cluster:monitor/main`.

> You can add permissions with either an <<apiexample,API call>>
> or the configuration file <<fileexample,roles.yml>>. File-based role management
> is useful if you want to define a role that doesn't need to change. Also, you
> cannot use the role management APIs to view or edit a role defined in `roles.yml`.
> Using a role management API is the preferred method for defining roles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add permissions by <<defining-roles,creating a role>>, and assigning
that role to the user. Roles can be created using {kib}, an
<<sql-role-api-example,API call>> or the <<sql-role-file-example,`roles.yml`
configuration file>>. Using {kib} or the role management APIs is the preferred
method for defining roles. File-based role management is useful if you want to
define a role that doesn't need to change. You cannot use the role management
APIs to view or edit a role defined in `roles.yml`. 
```

Reviewer: I think it's good to explain that it's a two-step process: 1) defining a role, and 2) assigning that role to the user. It's also good to mention Kibana as a third way of managing roles. And I've reworded a bit, and consistently formatted `roles.yml`.

> [[apiexample]]
> *Add permissions with the role management APIs*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[discrete]
[[sql-role-api-example]]
===== Add permissions with the role management APIs
```

Reviewer: IDs are global, so I think it's better to pick something less generic than `apiexample `

This example configures a role that can run SQL in JDBC querying the `test`
index:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_security/role/cli_or_drivers_minimal
{
  "cluster": ["cluster:monitor/main"],
  "indices": [
    {
      "names": ["test"],
      "privileges": ["read", "indices:admin/get"]
    }
  ]
}
--------------------------------------------------

> // TEST[skip:forcomparisontofilemethod]

Reviewer: I don't think we should skip this test

Author: Hi @abdonpijpelink 

I should be able to get this test running. Actually, I have a few questions about the approach.

When I put this API example in `create-roles.asciidoc`, it passes. However, when I run it in `security.asciidoc`
it fails with `error: java.lang.AssertionError: expected [2xx] status code but api [raw[method=POST path=_security/role/cli_or_drivers_minimal]] returned [400 Bad Request] [{"error":"no handler found for uri [/_security/role/cli_or_drivers_minimal?error_trace=true] and method [POST]"}]`

I'm going to make a few assumptions on how to solve this, but you can correct my understanding:

- Do I have to set up security in the `build.gradle` file? [the one directly under `elasticsearch/docs/`
directory? I saw another under `elasticsearch/x-pack/docs/` which I think has the security settings to enable the create-roles tests to pass. I tried mucking around with the x-pack settings in the `elasticsearch/docs/build.gradle` but did not make much progress].  
- Is there any internal documentation on how to set up the configuration for the tests ?
- What type of elasticsearch instance runs for these docs test cases? 

- If it's not a good idea to modify the `build.gradle` file, could I somehow "link" the API example from the `create-roles.asciidoc` page? Exactly like how the previous author does it with the `roles.yml` snippet below it (with `include-tagged`). For instance, the API example would be (hidden?) on the `create-roles.asciidoc` page and the test runs "there", but somehow it could be displayed on the `security.asciidoc` page by some Asciidoc link (do you know if something like that exists for API examples?)

Reviewer: Great questions @anthonymcglone2022 

> Do I have to set up security in the build.gradle file?

No, that should not be necessary

> Is there any internal documentation on how to set up the configuration for the tests ?

All we have is here: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/tree/main/docs#test-code-snippets

> What type of elasticsearch instance runs for these docs test cases?

Should be an instance with security enabled, as that is the default these days.

I don't understand why this test fails, and will have to look into it a bit more. The snippet is similar to [examples on other pages](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/master/defining-roles.html#_example_8), and the test doesn't fail there. 

Maybe this test only fails locally somehow? One thing we can try is removing the `// TEST[skip:forcomparisontofilemethod]` line. I can then run a CI build and we can see what happens.

Author: @abdonpijpelink I was able to get the test running. I used `include::/path/to/file[tag=tag_id]` in the `security.asciidoc` file and used `// tag::tag_id[]` on the API snippet, which I placed in `create-roles.asciidoc` . It displays ok in `security.asciidoc` and the test runs. Do you think it's ok to push this up, or you would prefer me to continue the troubleshooting with the CI build (and so on)?

Reviewer: Push it. We'll troubleshoot the test on our end. Thank you!

> [[fileexample]]
> *Add permissions to roles.yml*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[discrete]
[[sql-role-file-example]]
===== Add permissions to `roles.yml`
```
